---
layout: post
title: Welcome 2020  
---
  Exactly a year ago, I wrote a [post](https://b-kartal.github.io/Resolutions/) summarizing my year, and my goals for 2019. Here, we are, we already consumed yet another year, and saw the sunlight at 2020. First and foremost, I am grateful that me and my family are all healthy, and I can only pass my best wishes to those who lost their beloved ones during the last year. 
  
  2019 has been a fast-changing year for me from a professional perspective in that the company I work for (Borealis AI) moved to a new organizational model, i.e. integrated model where fundamental researchers and applied team jointly work towards products. Previously I worked as a researcher on the fundamental team, and I was only expected to conduct research to publish and generate IP through patents, etc. The switch has been a little bit abrupt as the skillsets for both roles are very different, but the challenge from the transition also comes with opportunities for growth in different dimensions. I can confidently say that I survived the transition process. Working on the product side also has its own advantages and disadvantages, and I plan to write a seperate blogpost on this subject later. I can still conduct some research, but mostly, through great interns that mostly come from the world-class RL Hub, a.k.a. University of Alberta. 
  
  Last year, I attended a few academic conferences, i.e. really great to both catch up with the old friends, but also meet lots of new people in the exponentially growing AI field. AAAI-19 took place in Hawaii, and particularly "Reinforcement Learning in Games" workshop was a blast. I will try to attend this workshop again in AAAI-20 in New York in February. I might be biased, but I personally like AAAI more than other more ML focused conferences in that AAAI managed to not overfit to the current trends compared to other ones, thus one still gets to see other classical AI based approaches. I and my colleague, Christopher Srinivasa, wrote a [blogpost](https://www.borealisai.com/en/blog/everything-old-new-again-tackling-classical-problems-modern-techniques-aaai-2019/) on AAAI-2019 last year. I also attended RLDM-19 conference in Montreal, i.e. awesome to meet broader RL community, i.e. mostly consisting of academics and industrial researchers. More recently, I attended AIIDE-19 conference to present our papers in Atlanta. AIIDE is awesome in that it is a single-track conference with smaller, but diverse audience, where one gets to see work that focuses on computational creativity or human-AI interaction.
  
  My goals for 2020 are numerous: I would like to continue to my momentum in physical exercising, read at least 30 books during the year, try to keep up with the state-of-the-art research in RL, travel to new places with my family, and maybe seek new adventures that we will only see as the world rolls out towards to the future ...
  
  I conclude with nothing but my best wishes for peace and health to everyone, especially to the Middle East area where I hail from (Istanbul). 2020 might have not started perfectly for the area, but I hope world-leaders act more responsibly for stability. Finishing the post with one of my favourite quotes from M. Kemal Ataturk "Peace at Home, Peace in the World". 
