---
layout: post
title: Finally Goodbye 2020 and Welcome 2021 
---

2020 has been quite a historic year for everyone. The Covid-19 pandemic has been ongoing and it has devastated many lives and businesses across the world. Given that several vaccinations have already been developed, let’s stay hopeful that things will get better.

In Feb 2020, I attended the AAAI-2020 conference in New York City, this was the last in-person conference that I attended. I thoroughly enjoyed socializing and meeting other folks in the AI ecosystem. One notable observation was that I saw only a few people wearing masks among the participants. I think this also shows how the western side of the world was unaware of what was about to happen. 
 
April 2020 was an unfortunate time as the Borealis AI Edmonton office was shut down. Both of our RL leads joined the University of Alberta as faculties simultaneously. Most employees were given some options to join some other offices. I was also given an option with some parameters to relocate/join the Toronto office, but in the end I decided to end my journey by taking the 3 months of severance package. My two years at Borealis AI had been truly amazing, I closely worked with great researchers and contributed to both academic and applied projects. 

After taking sometime off and reflecting on what to do next, I started doing job interviews. After a few failures that unfortunately blew some ”once a lifetime” chances, I recognized that I needed some preparation. I brushed-up fundamentals, did some coding exercises, and started to get offers. I accepted that how the interview game works and played along. I had opportunities both in start-ups and large-tech companies. One thing I learned during this process is the offer validity, i.e. start-ups generally have short duration to accept/decline while large tech companies may keep the offer valid for upto a year. This gave me peace of mind, we did a family vacation by renting for the first time a Caravan. We went to the Canadian Rocky Mountains, it was the best time of 2020 for all of us.

After our trip, I met and interviewed with the Entrepreneur First (EF) team, i.e. a talent investor firm that brings together diverse and talented folks together to start-up companies. I was selected to join the inaugural Toronto cohort that would start in September. After some deliberation, I decided to join the EF program, and we moved to Toronto at the end of August. 

The EF program does not have a curriculum, it is more of a framework that brings together ambitious technical and business savvy folks and guides them on a need basis. The people that run the Toronto cohort are mostly entrepreneurs themselves, and more importantly they are great people to interact with. Cohort members are expected to meet with each other, brainstorm, form teams, work on ideas, and break-up and repeat if it does not work. The program requires full-time commitment. I did not write a single line of code during my time at EF, but I learned a lot about the business development side. My EF journey ended after forming two teams and working on ideas that we either invalidated by “The Mom Test” framework or one of the co-founders lost interest with the idea. If there is one thing I became aware of at EF, it is that I underappreciated my teammates doing the business development. Solving the “How” side is only meaningful after the “What” side exists. I may not have come out of the EF program with a startup, but I learnt a lot and met many talented & nice folks that I hope to stay connected. 

So what is next? I am very excited that I have accepted a role at Nvidia as a senior deep learning scientist to join the Autonomous Driving team. I worked on some Robotics projects during my PhD, so it will be interesting to work on this space again after a few years in finance. 

Hope to write more often, but no promises :) Till then, wear a mask and stay alive.
